---
title:  "Revisiting Point Cloud Completion: Are We Ready For The Real-World?"
date:   2025-06-24 22:21:59 +00:00
image: /publications/images/realpc2.png
authors: "Stuti Pathak*, Prashant Kumar*, <strong>Dheeraj Baiju</strong>, Nicholus Mboga, Gunther Steenackers, Rudi Penne"
venue: "ICCV"
arxiv: "https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/ICCV2025/papers/Pathak_Revisiting_Point_Cloud_Completion_Are_We_Ready_For_The_Real-World_ICCV_2025_paper.pdf"
code: "https://github.com/stutipathak5/Point-Cloud-Completion"
---
Point clouds acquired in constrained, challenging, uncontrolled, and multi-sensor real-world settings are noisy,
incomplete, and non-uniformly sparse. This presents acute
challenges for the vital task of point cloud completion. Using tools from Algebraic Topology and Persistent Homology
(PH), we demonstrate that current benchmark object point
clouds lack rich topological features that are integral part of
point clouds captured in realistic environments. To facilitate
research in this direction, we contribute the first real-world industrial dataset for point cloud completion, RealPC - a
diverse, rich and varied set of point clouds. It consists of
∼ 40,000 pairs across 21 categories of industrial structures
in railway establishments. Benchmark results on several
strong baselines reveal that existing methods fail in realworld scenarios. We discover a striking observation - unlike current datasets, RealPC consists of multiple 0- and
1-dimensional PH-based topological features. We prove
that integrating these topological priors into existing works
helps improve completion. We present how 0-dimensional
PH priors extract the global topology of a complete shape
in the form of a 3D skeleton and assist a model in generating
topologically consistent complete shapes. Since computing Homology is expensive, we present a simple, yet effective Homology Sampler guided network, BOSHNet that bypasses the Homology computation by sampling proxy backbones akin to 0-dim PH. These backbones provide similar
benefits of 0-dim PH right from the start of the training,
unlike similar methods where accurate backbones are obtained only during later phases of the training




